need to build that tree in beauty analysis. Like, how do we error, or how do we alert in the cases where, um, they cannot? Uh, they they get in a bad situation.  So let's walk through one of them. So the 1st would be, Um, There is a. Let's just start with tables and not views.  Team A shares a table, a team B. When team B, uh, and and and if T, if TB doesn't have that table already, great, it works. And the case that a team is as a table that exists, what you're saying right now is it'll just use that, which is erroneous. potentially, right? Depending on what they want to do. single tables view basically means they can't see it because it's masked by their local table.  And that's the case where what you'd want is a, we'd have to discuss what what you'd want as far as an interface, but it should be a warning. Could be. Um, it could be made, you don't want it that a, someone can share a table from somebody and break the local.  So, you know, it's a it's a warning, but, uh, Ideally, there would be some type of verification on all shares. Maybe it's an alert, maybe it's an actor, or that says, hey, you shared this to A, but they can't actually see this table. Okay, um, hypercorrel, we would just never allow it.  And that's the, that's the route further down, which is everyone should be the same. The 2nd thing that would happen is, It should be erroneous and they should not be able to do that. If they have a view, And a view is shared to them that as Abels, and they have a local table that is essentially masking that, that view should error out.  It should not, it should not work that way, and they have to, uh, because effectively it's, they're sharing a view, but the underlying tables, which should be coming from that, from the team that's doing the sharing, would also be invalid, right? Yeah, I think that's the case where it's like you need the right things and someone's got to decide whether you do it. At the DBT level.  You know, at the build level, a New York force it. Uh, if they have like some kind of janitorial report, they can run and check it. Yep, that's the 3rd bit would be is, and in prototype, all bets are off.  Right? Because they're gonna be making those. On the fly, um, now, I, Ideally, in that case, you could, you could potentially discover it and kind of walk through.  You could do a create table. If it was API tables, you could enforce it one way, you know, API tables could go look at an exam of that and error out in the case, but you might not have that an iceberg. Right?  Yep, yep. #um. So I mean, it it's really like what are you trying to do? Is it the short term solution that says?  you're gonna enable it and just verify there's not a breakage, but, By the way, you're now subjecting, Um, Your incident Q, to user error, that could cause this problem at any time, right? Yeah, I think the only problem I see it right now with the current solution, user will user experience is kind of like user will not have, user is blind. User is not able to see what's went wrong.  When he's using the sharing table and sharing table is not responding at all. Yeah, so you're going to have 2 flavours of incidents. One is, hey, I share this and it's giving the wrong results.  Or two, I shared this and they can't see it. Yep, yep, yep. So that should be nice, yeah.  That's the issue is, is like, you really want to put this out that way. You can strongly warn people, but 3 months from now, it's still in this state. It's, you just made work for Sasha's team.  Yes, yes. The the 2nd point, John, as you said, like the verification process of it, like let's say you said, we're gonna cross-check it like if this particular table exists, the global uniqueness is stuff which you are talking about earlier. Yes.  So, I think... That's your fine, that's the solution that actually solves this, right? Yeah, but, um, If that is the rules of the road, then it is fine.  But honestly, like, do you feel like every talent, so let's say a seal application table? Every time I would like to call it application, why I will call it like application, tech DRC application or something like that, right? Which is like.  Pushing people towards the global uniqueness, even like the exactly the entity name is just application, seal application. Yeah. So.  I I'm I think I don't have any point, but I'm just saying as a human term like it gonna be. A little bit difficult to kind of digest if I'm using A cluster or B cluster. I think we need to walk through it and and talk to that.  Yeah, and what that means. So, and I'll just say it's not an easy conversation. You have this issue with Snowblake.  You have this issue with any, Federated, like, and the general practice is, and someone can go spend the time and look at the general practice. You don't have to take my word for it. Free times and no one seems to listen.  So someone else go do it. There, you tend to make a table naming convention that does enforcement for your, for it, that's got prefix and stuff. It's either on the table or the schema, or potentially on a catalogue.  But you got a clean way to map it, and that type of a unique path. To a table is better, like, you know, than, uh, uh, it's essentially the way you do this for this type of system. Okay.  John, what is your point of view on the migration? Let's say, if we go for the specific naming convention, the prefix, or something like that, maybe if you can put some, uh, thoughts they are like, let's say if we go for the #ah let's say we remove the prefix like with the hard-coded prefix, which we are adding through the code. And later on, we say like, okay, every single schema of GD matrics have the GT matrics prefix, like in API tables.  Which can control the collision, but it has the migration and it has like a, like a big chunk of work. Yeah. That's that's the piece someone has to go get analysis.  I can't answer it. I don't have a direct direction. Yes, that's a problem that has to be solved.  If we're gonna go that route. But to this end, like, you need a solution that crosses API tables and iceberg. And you need a solution that ideally aligns us when we have multi-tenet clusters.  Um, and then the other point is the same query happening on, uh, producers cluster should be the same on the consumers cluster. right? Yeah, yeah, you're right. Like #ah what reason you have it like let's say if multiple tenants are sharing the same big AWS cluster.  We will have the resource boundaries there for each tenants and how are we gonna, how are we gonna share the API tables there, then we definitely need a proper naming convention to resolve those conflicts. You're right. Right.  I think, sirup, you are saying something and I cut you in between. Um, I mean, yeah, that's a, I think for enforcing uniqueness, uh, just by table name, right? That's where report be challenging because when I'm creating a table, I don't know who else has created that table, right?  And also another thing which would come into play would be like, for example, if city versus known, it's city, let's say if I'm on its city, side of it only and somebody has created the same table on its city side. And I don't have visibility. They can't even share that table with me.  So, yeah, I mean, the only thing in that is left, which is choosing different name for my table. So that's that might, I feel, might create big confusion and also for uniqueness enforcement, right? What comparison we are doing would matter.  Like, for example, are we comparing prototype schemas versus the schema, their schemas, Tuesday of schema, staging to staging, and app to app to app that comparison we are doing for the uniqueness, then it could happen that, let's say my somebody merged their changes directly directly to master translator, for example, they didn't create API table index, staging, right? And straight away created in masters. So when I'm doing through my pipeline, I won't get any error in depth staging.  But when I go to Master Branch, that's where my model will suddenly spoil. Yeah, well, and that's where merge has to take her. The only thing I'll say is, I think it's, it's the full path, analogue, that schema, that table, that the HA, the, um, ACD versus not ACD is.  And some of this is that, that's where I say it, it's like the naming contention has to be designed, and we have to talk about which parts of those we're gonna enforce. I mean, I feel like in some ways, HCD versus non ACD should be a, not a able name. Or even a catalogue.  Expo your bit, but a property, but that's a, that's a tougher one to kind of understand how to enforce, I think. But, I mean, I don't, this is, this is what, again, the whole point is that a whole lot of complexity, with just the simple solution, if you start to unwind it. So the question is, what are you, what are you proposing exactly here to do on day one?  are you just gonna remove it and see what happens? Yep. So current current landscape, where we are right, is we don't have any collision right now. which we have verified, right?  So removing the like a like whatever we are adding it right now in a custom code, which we will eliminate it. So maybe like from the platform side, we are not doing any modification. The phase 2 is, as you said, like the global uniqueness, so how are we going to ramp up like naming convention, which is like we need to have the global uniqueness across different tenets.  So if different tenants get merged into one big talent, they will have the uniqueness around their schemas or whatever object they will. You can call it like the catalogue plus plus. Okay, so we can talk long-term solutions on that.  But the question is, what are you doing? What are you doing today and what is the protection you're going to provide? So like, you can remove it.  And then the big thing is, can you run or have some type of job that runs that warns or allures people that we have and out of? That's that's really good. A bad share.  Just leave it at that as day one, but these other things have to be work and discussed. Executive, executive. Your pointer is right.  Like, we don't have any guardrails against it, let's say, if call isn't happen in any of the model. How are we going to detect it? How we gonna like use and know?  So the detection mechanism, we don't have in John. So maybe before we deliver this capability, you're right. We need to have it.  What's and I'll put it this way. Who is Sasha going to send all the tickets to that turn that turn this into endless investigations or what are they going to spot? Like ideally...  Some of this, but you're, there, there's, there's an easy path, but someone has to be able to have a, a, analyser or assessment that texts these things so this is, is not turning into, uh, Yeah. I think a series of one off investigations in the future. But do we need to do investigations once we've identified the collision?  Well, so that's what I'm saying is like if you have a script that detects it fine, but the big thing is you have unknown behaviours, right? So and I'm imagining them, but there's 2 scenarios you're going to see. One is, an end user, um, you know, so producer shared a table, or a view is is really where they saw the 1st painful parts, and the view is not returning the right results.  And, you know, so the 1st thing will be is that consuming team is gonna have questions and try to talk to and waste the time of the producing team. Then I scratch the head as well. You know, I guess this result on my side, and you could read this result on this side, so then they're gonna generate an incident, which is gonna go into Sasha's queue, and someone who may or may not be familiar, depending on how often this happens, we'll then have to go investigate it.  And then the question will go back then is, well, you have to either rename your cable or something like that, which is not good. They may have to duplicate the table for sharing, right? So it's like, what are the, what are the ads, the success there?  You have to kind of think through what, what you're gonna run into. Um, I mean, there is the other bit, which we haven't talked about here on API tables in particular, but we run those. We didn't do the Trino to Trino.  No, no, no, no, right? We actually run the API. So we actually run those. with the fit access of the producer, right?  So that, that works. Yep, yep. And so that's the big thing is like, that mechanism still has to, has to function.  Oh, I think that, that belief, like we are not changing anything, John, like it's gonna work as it is, like, from the producer side, like producer is sharing that particular failure and that it's gonna work. But I think thanks for pointing me on the guardrail side, like how are we going to protect or you need to have some sort of a script or some sort of thing up and running, which is gonna checking all the high meta stores, checking data shedding and reconciling it. Okay, which one is kind of like have a collision and then.  Yeah, but you're right like how are we gonna detect only in the cycle? So maybe the platform team or whoever is supporting it, not gonna get kind of a hard time. yeah. Yeah.  Yep. Yep. Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I mean, and I'd say so it's like you could put it out, but that's that's kind of like, yep. There's there's 2 ways, there's a easy, the lazy river approach is where we make the change and then you, you raise your awareness. with Sasha's team, but ideally you have a script that can kind of assess illisions. I agree.  Um, and then then these other issues we can kind of work as we go forward. Yep. So, John, I just want to kind of put us some plan in front of you.  So what I feel is like 1st we need to have the guardrails. Let's say if collision happen, how are we gonna detect it? And how are we gonna have the proper communication channel or the detection mechanism, broadcast it to the customer, whoever is doing the collision.  The 2nd thing, once we have the collision mechanism, then only this particular feature can go live, removing the prefix, right? And then the 3rd one is like, uh, uh, we are like, we can have the schema with a global uniqueness, so we will try to identify Okay, what are the prefix we're gonna use across for the global uniqueness if you're gonna, um, we are creating any tables. Uh, is that order sounds good or maybe uh, do you want to?  Yeah, I mean, with the last one is someone has to design design the approach. It takes a little bit of analysis to figure it, figure it out. But yeah.  Yep, yep. And the big thing, like, user outcome is... If you ask them, would you rather get a result that's wrong or would you rather get an error?  I mean, I think the problem right now is if they have an overriding API table name. Or iceberg table name on a view, right? Or actually, I think it's iceberg as well.  They're gonna get errant results. With no warning. And I mean, if someone has the time, you can probably build out shared examples of this just for to kind of prove the point.  So that's the one thing like, you know, the protection mechanism is, you know, if you're gonna use a shared payable, please verify, run this script, uh, that checks that you don't have a conflict because your results will be inappropriate otherwise. And, you know, I mean, I believe it at that. I mean, the other thing is you could enforce it on build.  That's not gonna cover all situations, but you could, you could have them error. If they have, uh, You know, someone would have to do what the check is, but it'd be basically check against a sharing definitions that they're using and versus very local tables. Yeah.  Yeah, I think I hear you #um although. So maybe there's a one more thing like #ah. For the failed safety, maybe we we check it during the registration time when we are registering the table 1st time, like when we are creating it.  It's gonna be, we can go to the master, we can go to the data sharing table and see like if this table has already been there in the system. But that will be the the overkill or what do you think? Can a pre-commit check?  I would say. I think, yeah, that's the thing of it, but the big part is, just remember, someone can go share a table to team B. and put them in an imbalanced state, right? Like, or not in an invalid state, but like, um, They could have existing tables already, right?  Yeah. So it would be a check also if they use any shared views. Do they have an overrider?  And you can't do the analysis in a half an hour. Someone has to go think it through, write down the scenarios and see what happens. Yeah, and also, I think we don't need to straight away enforce the uniqueness at table level.  It's only matter when somebody is sharing. So probably when the sharing rules are getting applied, um, through Jules Pipeline, at that point, maybe uh, things can be checked. If the team with which they are sharing is that team also having the same table name already in their catalogue.  Yeah, well, and that, think through what we're saying, what we're saying with that, because that starts to really get hairy on the number of things you're checking where it is. And again, like, The side comment would be is, We don't have something like open metadata. If you had that as a service, a lot of these things are much simpler to check for.  So, yeah, it might, it might be in a route where, Should we should we prioritise? Well, I can't. I can't put...  I would say you don't have the time and schedule to get in there, but it's like that, you know, this is, I'll just, it's a frustration point, but it's like, that was a foundational thing that should have been in now, like 2 years ago, and if it was, a lot of these things are easier. It not. So you're stuck.  I'm trying to come up with ways to do it. I don't think you can I don't think you can prioritise and quickly put that in before you solve and resolve for this. That's all I'm saying.  But, I mean, the big thing is, don't go overkill trying to come up with a very complex and hairy verification bit, because you'll probably, you'll probably find out, it's fragile. Um, but there, there's probably some key, key scripts or things that you can do for checks. I don't know what they are, but someone, somebody should come up with, but it's got to protect the big, the big thing is, does a consumer get what they expect to do?  Is a consumer gonna put a table end that breaks something they're already using and sharing? And then, and I think maybe it's consumer side protections. you can get away with mostly. One thing, oh, sorry, go ahead.  So, so what I was saying, like, probably for long blood term, if we maybe align it with the same way we have done it for iceberg, that the schema names itself have the team named included in it, that ensures the uniqueness and growth, right? that's why we don't see this type of collision happening on iceberg side. Um, and so, but there's definitely for that there will be the migration path of moving their current schemas into new schema names and um, yeah, rebuilding their models, et cetera.  Yeah. But I mean, which could be, for example, I don't know if we're coupled with Mono Repo approach or something like that, but that's something to think I would say. Yeah, I think, I mean, maybe maybe Sarup also, like, I don't know who would own this, but they're, I think maybe we have to put together, Dumping, ideally, it used to be.  I thought that the EBT slash Cosmo team was going to own naming convention, but it doesn't look like that's there, but I mean, maybe we can put together on catalysts just a thought set on Damien, Damien Convention, and how we think some of these things could be done, but if someone has to go spend the analysis on, not the delivery task time, but like go through some of this separate from this effort to just. figure out what the, what the, where we all want to get to on it so that it's, uh, it's all, because it's, it's like multi-tenant, it's gotta combine. Uh, I say, human acceptable naming convention. OPA. give the ability to update rules.  It's like all these things are kind of like perfect storming on on on this as silly as it is. But I, I, if this is really like they need to get this working so they can share views. You can do that, but I mean, you just gotta bring the caveat picture of Where are the dragons?  And oh, what should support be aware of? And ideally, a couple little tools for that. #um just to give you update John like so maybe in one of the the meeting #ah I think #ah. There's been discussion around the naming convention for each tenant.  And that talent name gonna be used across the stack, which is, let's say, in the Castra DVD, uh, in Mobius ACLs, in that Mobius ACL policies, even in the Portico and in the galaxy. I'm not sure like maybe I will just check back like what are the naming conventions we are using it. And then the same global uniqueness, uh, gonna be derived from that particular naming convention as well for the tenant name.  Yeah. Yeah, the big thing is. Whoever is proposing the naming convention has to do it aligned with.  OPA. #um this type of issue right? That type of thing. Yep.  And then, I mean, at the big decider, like, on that, like, I'm wondering if some of the things like HTD, not HTD can become tags. And, and I'll, I'll, uh, not DB. DBT tags, but if we started talking metadata services that could do that, and these are checkable things, it might be easier, but.  I'm just reading through your. There, yeah, it's yeah. I think #um John #um II get IT what I need for this call like I think the the blindest spot was like to how are we gonna have the guardrails?  That was the really good point, you said. And #ah and thank you so like for the global UNIX NES like at city and non-net city concern you raise. I think that is another kind of missing point.  So what I'm gonna do, John, like I'm gonna put some wording like whatever I have learned from here in this meeting. And gonna supply the notes. And give you the plan if you give me the go ahead on that plan, we will will kind of move forward, yeah.  Yeah, I think you're. I mean, I think you're on the right path there. yeah. Um, so, but I, again, like, the goal here is, all Raj's immediate view problem, right?  Yep, minimum one. Yeah. But, but I know not to introduce another problem, which you said in Sasha's world.  So I need to solve the Sasha's world problem 1st so maybe we can detect 1st and yeah, yeah. You're much easier if you come to her and say, we're putting this on, and Sasha, we thought about you, and here's the, here's what we're giving you, so you're good with this. Are you good with it?  And then she's probably fine. If it's, if it's, if they go in blind, it'll be, um, some poor weenie investigating their problem. They have no visibility or understanding of why it's happening.  Yeah. I do understand. Yeah.  Acknowledge you. Yeah, I think I think it makes sense, yeah. #um any other thing JC or Megan you would like to #um some be. I, I would.  I'll put the notes. I will if you need to have some more stories or maybe if you need to refine something maybe I can I can sit with you and then we'll work on it. No, for me.  I like #Ah, I think this is good. I think some foodful conversations SO #ah I think I' M. Is there any other, like, information bit you need from me? I think you have.  I think you have an approach of. Let's go. Yes, and.  And then, then, like, the suburb, I don't know, maybe we can talk about, and I don't know, who else we kind of hook in, but maybe we should probably just pull on an analysis task on all of this, and then get these guys and everybody something to think about, and throw, uh, For things at it, right, to to come up with an approach on naming convention and some of this other stuff. Long term? Yeah.  Yeah, sure. I think I'll have a fair day ahead like it's it's just a kind of a Tuesday so maybe we have four more days to go. So good luck guys.  See ya, thanks. Thanks guys. Thank you. 